So back in the project, it's time for new components or for new routes because thus far, we have our recipes
and we have our shopping list area, we now need some area where we can sign in and my idea here is that
in our application here, we have an auth page, an authentication page where users can sign up and log
in and that auth page is of course available in an unauthenticated state,
so the user doesn't need to be logged in to visit that auth page because forcing the user to being logged
in would defeat the purpose of an authenticated page.
The recipes page on the other hand, that page should be locked down and should not be available if the
user is not logged in
and the same for that manage dropdown, it should only be shown if the user is logged in
because otherwise, you can't interact with that
or we could but these actions shouldn't do anything because that will actually change to requests that
need authentication to work. The shopping list should always be accessible, though of course you are free
to also edit this and log both routes down if you're not authenticated. With that, let's start by adding
a new area in this application which I'll create here in my app folder which I'll name auth and in there,
we need an auth.component.ts file and an auth.component.html file, which is the template for the
auth component.
Now in our auth.component.ts file, we export a class, auth component and as learned, such a component
is created by adding the @component decorator
and there we need to define a selector, which in my case here will be app auth
and we also need to tell Angular where to find our template and that of course will be my auth.component.html
file in the same folder as this component lives.
Now as you also learned, a component needs to be declared such that Angular understands it
and for this, we can go to the app module and here, we simply add it to our declarations array,
the auth component, simply add it here and make sure you also add an import path to that newly created file.
With all of that out of the way, this new component exists,
now of course we can work on that template here
and for this, I'll add a bootstrap row, so a div with class row and a column, xs-12 to take the full width
on all screen sizes and in there,
I want to have a form and that form should be my sign up and login form and we'll add a button
that allows the user to toggle between both modes. In the form,
I'll add my form group div which is a bootstrap class to wrap a label and an input together basically
and I'll will then add a label here for my e-mail input let's say, that also means that here we should
add an input with class form control so that it looks good because the class form control is offered
by bootstrap and I will give this my e-mail type here,
it will also get the ID of e-mail for accessibility reasons so that this belongs to this label.
And with that, we should have that first input,
let's now add a second input,
this will be the input for the password,
so the for type and ID here will also be password, type password ensures that the characters are hidden
and we also need a button of course, so let's add another div here with a button which also
gets the class button
primary where we can say sign up for now and this will later also dynamically change the text based
on the mode we're in because for that, I will add another button and another div below that and there
I will simply say switch to login which of course later will also have a dynamic caption and with that,
let's make sure we can see that by ensuring that we can load this component or this component route
here and for that in app routing module, I want to register a new route which loads the auth page.
So here, we can register a new path which can just be auth, the name is up to you though or the path is
up to you which you want to use and there, the component I want to load will be the auth component
and for that to work, you need to make sure that you add the import path up there to the auth component.
If you now save all of that and you enter /auth here, this is the form we're getting,
doesn't look too bad, of course you can change the styling,
actually I will change it a little bit, there are a couple of things I'm not liking,
I want to add more distance, more spacing between these two buttons here or actually move them in the
same row,
like this maybe, yes that looks better and also reduce the width of that a little bit on the bigger
devices,
so there I want to work with col-md-6, which is a bootstrap class which gives us a more narrow column
and I want to add an offset of three so that this is nicely centered
so here, that looks better.
This is it,
this is the form we'll work with.
Now of course, we later also will add logic to make sure that we automatically are redirected to the
auth page
if we're not logged in and we can't visit recipes if we are not logged in but for now,
we'll manually go to that auth page here.
One thing I will already add though is in the header, a new link that allows us to go to that auth page,
let me replicate a shopping list link here and now,
that first shopping list link will go to the authenticate route,
so the text is authenticate, the router link points at /auth therefore and if we save that, now we
can go to that route with that navigation link here,
perfect.
So this is the basic setup with which we'll start,
of course we're far from being done because whilst we have this page now, the work just starts and as
a first step, let's make sure we can switch between login and sign up mode here and thereafter, let's
add the logic to actually sign up users and log them in.